Project Proposal
================
Candice Kasahara

# Introduction to problem/question

The question that I want to study is how different variables in the
urban environment affect the rate of runoff in urban water systems in
Buffalo, NY. This question will be used to develop hotspot regions where
waterbug species samples should be conducted to examine the water
quality. The different variables will include socioeconomic (with a
focus on economic)

# Problem / Question

How do different variables in the urban environment contribute to the
amount of water that enters urban water systems?

# Inspiring Examples

## Example 1

![](https://risecollaborative.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/05/Screen-Shot-2017-05-01-at-12.02.09-PM-910x1024.png)

This graphic displays the urban regions that were established by 1950
(in yellow) and 1951-2010. This graphic easily conveys the urban sprawl
outward from the waterfront of Lake Erie. This puts into perspective how
I want to visualize the neighborhoods that impact water runoff.

## Example 2

![](http://www.mshslc.org/wp-content/uploads/2013/05/Amphibian-Sampling-Sites1.jpg)
This graphic displays the sampling sites of amphibians. After overlaying
the variable data, I want to create an extra graphic that pinpoints
hotspots for freshwater waterbug sampling sites.

## Example 3

![](http://visualeconsite.s3.amazonaws.com/wp-content/uploads/nyc_percent_in_poverty.gif)
This graphic is more complex in variables than I will assign to the
Buffalo region, however, I plan on overlaying the different variables on
one graphic to observe any noticeable trends among the datasets to
pinpoint as hotspots for field samples.

# Proposed data sources

One source is through “PenData Buffalo,” which provides geospatial,
economic, and neighborhood data for Buffalo, NY.
(<https://data.buffalony.gov/>). For accessing regional landscape
layers, the DEC’s website offers the entirety of NY with information
about watershed, lakes, rivers, and streams
(<https://gisservices.dec.ny.gov/gis/erm/>)

# Proposed methods

For my methods, I plan on examining three different urban variables that
may impact the water runoff in the landscape. The variables include
socioeconomic (with a focus on economic) neighborhoods, waterfront
infrastructure, and the drainage systems in Buffalo, NY.

# Expected results

With this project, I want to produce three graphics that examine three
observed variables against Buffalo’s landscape as well as a graphic that
overlaps the three variables that pinpoints areas that will be potential
waterbug sampling sites.
